% WARNING: THIS FILE IS GENERATED BY genSchemaDocs. DO NOT EDIT.
% Generated: 11:28PM on April 14, 2025


(DomeLight_1)=
# DomeLight_1

An intrinsic light that emits light inwards from
a very distant external environment, such as a sky, or a light environment
captured in a High Dynamic Range (HDR) image used for Image Based Lighting 
(IBL).

Use DomeLights to simulate environment lighting. 

For DomeLight_1, the dome's default orientation is determined by its 
`poleAxis` property. The fallback value, "scene", means that the dome starts 
with its top pole aligned with the stage's up axis.
    
Note that the rotation necessary to align the dome light with its `poleAxis`
is intended to be applied by a renderer to only the dome itself, and *not*
to inherit down to any USD namespace children of the dome light prim.
    
If `poleAxis` is set to "Y" or "scene" and the stage's up axis is "Y", the
dome's default orientation will adhere to the 
[OpenEXR specification](https://openexr.com/en/latest/index.html) for
latitude-longitude maps. From the OpenEXR documentation:

> Latitude-Longitude Map:
>
> The environment is projected onto the image using polar coordinates
> (latitude and longitude).  A pixel's x coordinate corresponds to
> its longitude, and the y coordinate corresponds to its latitude.
> Pixel (dataWindow.min.x, dataWindow.min.y) has latitude +pi/2 and
> longitude +pi; pixel (dataWindow.max.x, dataWindow.max.y) has
> latitude -pi/2 and longitude -pi.
>
> In 3D space, latitudes -pi/2 and +pi/2 correspond to the negative and
> positive y direction.  Latitude 0, longitude 0 points into positive
> z direction; and latitude 0, longitude pi/2 points into positive x
> direction.
> 
> The size of the data window should be 2*N by N pixels (width by height),
> where N can be any integer greater than 0.

See also the alternative {ref}`DomeLight` version.


```{contents}
:depth: 2
:local:
:backlinks: none
```

(DomeLight_1_properties)=

## Properties

(DomeLight_1_guideRadius)=

### guideRadius

**USD type**: `float`

**Fallback value**: `100000.0`

Sets the radius of guide geometry used to 
visualize the dome light, in USD units. The fallback value is 1.0e5, which 
equates to 1 km for scenes whose `metersPerUnit` is the USD default of 0.01 
(1 unit equals 1 cm).


(DomeLight_1_inputs:texture:file)=

### inputs:texture:file

**USD type**: `asset`

The color texture (typically an 
HDR image intended for IBL) used by the DomeLight.


(DomeLight_1_inputs:texture:format)=

### inputs:texture:format

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `automatic`

The parameterization of the color texture.
Valid values are:
- automatic: The renderer will try to determine the layout from the file itself.
For example, RenderMan texture files embed an explicit parameterization.
- latlong: The file will be parameterized with latitude as X, longitude as Y.
- mirroredBall: The file will be parameterized as an image of the environment 
reflected in a sphere, using an implicitly orthogonal projection.
- angular: Similar to mirroredBall but the radial dimension is mapped linearly 
to the angle, providing better sampling at the edges.
- cubeMapVerticalCross: The file will be parameterized as a cube map with faces 
laid out as a vertical cross.


(DomeLight_1_light:shaderId)=

### light:shaderId

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `DomeLight`

The shader ID for a DomeLight_1. 
USD will also register a Sdr shader node with a "DomeLight" identifier and 
the source type "USD" to correspond to the light's inputs


(DomeLight_1_poleAxis)=

### poleAxis

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `scene`

The starting alignment of the dome's top pole.
This alignment is for the dome itself and is *not* inherited by the namespace 
children of the dome. Valid values are:

- scene: The dome light's top pole is aligned with the stage's up axis.
- Y: The dome light's top pole is aligned with the +Y axis. 
- Z: The dome light's top pole is aligned with the +Z axis. 

If `poleAxis` is set to "Y" or "scene" and the stage's up axis is "Y", the
dome's default orientation will adhere to the 
[OpenEXR specification](https://openexr.com/en/latest/index.html) for
latitude-longitude maps.   


(DomeLight_1_portals)=

### portals

**USD type**: `rel` (relationship)

Optional portals to guide light sampling.


(DomeLight_1_inheritedproperties_Xformable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Xformable`)

(DomeLight_1_xformOpOrder)=

### xformOpOrder

**USD type**: `token[]`



(DomeLight_1_inheritedproperties_Imageable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Imageable`)

(DomeLight_1_proxyPrim)=

### proxyPrim

**USD type**: `rel` (relationship)



(DomeLight_1_purpose)=

### purpose

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `default`



(DomeLight_1_visibility)=

### visibility

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `inherited`


