% WARNING: THIS FILE IS GENERATED BY genSchemaDocs. DO NOT EDIT.
% Generated: 11:28PM on April 14, 2025


(PortalLight)=
# PortalLight

A rectangular portal in the local XY plane that 
guides sampling of a dome light. Transmits light in the -Z direction.
The rectangle is 1 unit in length.

```{contents}
:depth: 2
:local:
:backlinks: none
```

(PortalLight_properties)=

## Properties

(PortalLight_inputs:height)=

### inputs:height

**USD type**: `float`

**Fallback value**: `1.0`

Height of the portal rectangle in the local Y 
axis.


(PortalLight_inputs:width)=

### inputs:width

**USD type**: `float`

**Fallback value**: `1.0`

Width of the portal rectangle in the local X 
axis.


(PortalLight_light:shaderId)=

### light:shaderId

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `PortalLight`

The shader ID for a PortalLight. 
USD will also register a Sdr shader node with a "PortalLight" identifier and 
the source type "USD" to correspond to the light's inputs


(PortalLight_inheritedproperties_Boundable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Boundable`)

(PortalLight_extent)=

### extent

**USD type**: `float3[]`



(PortalLight_inheritedproperties_Xformable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Xformable`)

(PortalLight_xformOpOrder)=

### xformOpOrder

**USD type**: `token[]`



(PortalLight_inheritedproperties_Imageable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Imageable`)

(PortalLight_proxyPrim)=

### proxyPrim

**USD type**: `rel` (relationship)



(PortalLight_purpose)=

### purpose

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `default`



(PortalLight_visibility)=

### visibility

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `inherited`


