% WARNING: THIS FILE IS GENERATED BY genSchemaDocs. DO NOT EDIT.
% Generated: 11:28PM on April 14, 2025


(ShadowAPI)=
# ShadowAPI

Use ShadowAPI to control shadow behavior, such as 
shadow color, distance, and falloff. These are non-physical controls that
ignore certain laws of physics used for lighting calculations. Use these 
controls for scenarios where you need artistic control over how shadows are 
rendered.

See {ref}`usdLux_shadows` for more examples of using ShadowAPI.

```{contents}
:depth: 2
:local:
:backlinks: none
```

(ShadowAPI_properties)=

## Properties

(ShadowAPI_inputs:shadow:color)=

### inputs:shadow:color

**USD type**: `color3f`

**Fallback value**: `(0, 0, 0)`

Sets the color of the shadows cast by the light.


(ShadowAPI_inputs:shadow:distance)=

### inputs:shadow:distance

**USD type**: `float`

**Fallback value**: `-1.0`

Sets the maximum distance between occluder and
shadow-receiving surface within which shadows will be cast. The fallback value 
is -1, which indicates no limit.


(ShadowAPI_inputs:shadow:enable)=

### inputs:shadow:enable

**USD type**: `bool`

**Fallback value**: `True`

Controls whether the prim with this schema
applied will cast shadows during lighting calculations. For more fine-grained 
control on which geometry will have shadows for this light, use 
{ref}`light-linking <usdLux_light_linking>`.

(ShadowAPI_inputs:shadow:falloff)=

### inputs:shadow:falloff

**USD type**: `float`

**Fallback value**: `-1.0`

Sets the size of the shadow falloff. This can
be used to hide or adjust the hard cut-off for shadows at the maximum shadow 
distance. The falloff zone is the area that fades from full shadow at the 
beginning of the falloff zone, to no shadow at the maximum shadow distance.

The falloff zone cannot exceed the maximum shadow distance. A falloff zone 
value equal to or less than 0.0 indicates no falloff zone.


(ShadowAPI_inputs:shadow:falloffGamma)=

### inputs:shadow:falloffGamma

**USD type**: `float`

**Fallback value**: `1.0`

Use `falloffGamma` to control the rate of 
shadow falloff within the shadow fallout zone. The value is treated as a 
gamma (exponential) control of shadow strength with linear distance within
the falloff zone. Proper use of falloffGamma requires appropriately setting
`shadow:distance` and `shadow:falloff`.

